02-dot-in-a-dot.md, before:

## A Dot In A Dot?
1. [Naming The Universe](https://aeon.co/essays/how-gods-beat-astronomers-in-the-solar-system-name-game)

> History of conflicts of naming "heavenly"(as they say) bodies.
> It's amazing how same results are obtained independently by independent observers without having any interaction with each other's existence.

2. [YouTube: Leonard Susskind: Quantum Mechanics, String Theory and Black Holes | Artificial Intelligence Podcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s78hvV3QLUE)
> It's always fascinating to hear Susskind. Loved listening to this one.

3. [WBH: The Great Battle of Fire and Light - The Power Games](https://waitbutwhy.com/2019/08/fire-light.html)
> This is the part 1 of the series by WBH.  

4. [YouTube: How to Tell Matter From Antimatter | CP Violation & The Ozma Problem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Elt0Gt9Cb6Q)

> This video is about the Ozma problem of distinguishing the chirality (ie left-handedness or right-handedness) of matter using weak interaction processes like beta decay (for example in uranium), or neutral kaon/k-meson decay. This is wrapped up in the phenomenon of CP violation, by which charge and parity are both violated by certain weak interaction processes - this enables antimatter to be unambiguously distinguished from matter, and left handed chirality from right handed.


> In this particular part, it dives (in a very layman way like WBH does every time) into the **genes** as a nature's software, 
and animals as a container/host for those genes.  
> This makes so much sense once you've read [The Selfish Gene by Richard Dawkins](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/2920622699). 

5. [Three Questions that Keep Me Up at Night](https://blog.evjang.com/2020/04/three-questions-that-keep-me-up-at-night.html)
> I think one should have few questions that keep them up at night.  
> First, it makes you aware of your own "self" and the universe.  
> Second, it makes you go to the places that you might not otherwise. 
> A rabbit-hole of information you will get to consume and feel more anxious!

6. [YouTube: Roger Penrose: Physics of Consciousness and the Infinite Universe | AI Podcast #85 with Lex Fridman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=orMtwOz6Db0)
> This has been one of the most relaxed and insightful conversations in the series.  
> I love how penrose is humble, and articulated even at the age of 90 years.  
> The conversation jumps from philosophy of time, space, conciousness, learning and much.

7. [YouTube: Ann Druyan: Cosmos, Carl Sagan, Voyager, and the Beauty of Science | AI Podcast #78 with Lex Fridman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7jFdxd1qX2g)
> This is an exciting conversation, partly because Ann and Carl were couples and that their relationship was a cosmic phenomenon.  
> The anecdotes Ann presented about their life, the power of science, the making of the **Cosmos** series and such were insightful.  
> I'd say, this was a great conversation to listen to without much technical details in the process.  
> This can be seen through Ann's enthusiasm for going into topic much deeper philosophically.

8. [Life is Made of Unfair Coin Flips](https://alexdanco.com/2020/04/09/life-is-made-of-unfair-coin-flips/)
> It's always fascinating to read about entropy from another perspective...

9. [Antifragility](https://alexdanco.com/2020/03/12/antifragility/)

10. [At the limits of thought ](https://aeon.co/essays/will-brains-or-algorithms-rule-the-kingdom-of-science)

> "Science today stands at a crossroads: will its progress be driven by human minds or by the machines that we’ve created?"  

> "Understanding is the means by which we overcome a world of paradox and illusion by opening up the black box of knowledge to modification."

---

Commit message:

Add an aritcle for TOE by Stephen Wolfram

02-dot-in-a-dot.md, after:

## A Dot In A Dot?
1. [Naming The Universe](https://aeon.co/essays/how-gods-beat-astronomers-in-the-solar-system-name-game)

> History of conflicts of naming "heavenly"(as they say) bodies.
> It's amazing how same results are obtained independently by independent observers without having any interaction with each other's existence.

2. [YouTube: Leonard Susskind: Quantum Mechanics, String Theory and Black Holes | Artificial Intelligence Podcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s78hvV3QLUE)
> It's always fascinating to hear Susskind. Loved listening to this one.

3. [WBH: The Great Battle of Fire and Light - The Power Games](https://waitbutwhy.com/2019/08/fire-light.html)
> This is the part 1 of the series by WBH.  

4. [YouTube: How to Tell Matter From Antimatter | CP Violation & The Ozma Problem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Elt0Gt9Cb6Q)

> This video is about the Ozma problem of distinguishing the chirality (ie left-handedness or right-handedness) of matter using weak interaction processes like beta decay (for example in uranium), or neutral kaon/k-meson decay. This is wrapped up in the phenomenon of CP violation, by which charge and parity are both violated by certain weak interaction processes - this enables antimatter to be unambiguously distinguished from matter, and left handed chirality from right handed.


> In this particular part, it dives (in a very layman way like WBH does every time) into the **genes** as a nature's software, 
and animals as a container/host for those genes.  
> This makes so much sense once you've read [The Selfish Gene by Richard Dawkins](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/2920622699). 

5. [Three Questions that Keep Me Up at Night](https://blog.evjang.com/2020/04/three-questions-that-keep-me-up-at-night.html)
> I think one should have few questions that keep them up at night.  
> First, it makes you aware of your own "self" and the universe.  
> Second, it makes you go to the places that you might not otherwise. 
> A rabbit-hole of information you will get to consume and feel more anxious!

6. [YouTube: Roger Penrose: Physics of Consciousness and the Infinite Universe | AI Podcast #85 with Lex Fridman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=orMtwOz6Db0)
> This has been one of the most relaxed and insightful conversations in the series.  
> I love how penrose is humble, and articulated even at the age of 90 years.  
> The conversation jumps from philosophy of time, space, conciousness, learning and much.

7. [YouTube: Ann Druyan: Cosmos, Carl Sagan, Voyager, and the Beauty of Science | AI Podcast #78 with Lex Fridman](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7jFdxd1qX2g)
> This is an exciting conversation, partly because Ann and Carl were couples and that their relationship was a cosmic phenomenon.  
> The anecdotes Ann presented about their life, the power of science, the making of the **Cosmos** series and such were insightful.  
> I'd say, this was a great conversation to listen to without much technical details in the process.  
> This can be seen through Ann's enthusiasm for going into topic much deeper philosophically.

8. [Life is Made of Unfair Coin Flips](https://alexdanco.com/2020/04/09/life-is-made-of-unfair-coin-flips/)
> It's always fascinating to read about entropy from another perspective...

9. [Antifragility](https://alexdanco.com/2020/03/12/antifragility/)

10. [At the limits of thought ](https://aeon.co/essays/will-brains-or-algorithms-rule-the-kingdom-of-science)

> "Science today stands at a crossroads: will its progress be driven by human minds or by the machines that we’ve created?"  

> "Understanding is the means by which we overcome a world of paradox and illusion by opening up the black box of knowledge to modification."

11. [Physicists Criticize Stephen Wolfram’s ‘Theory of Everything’](https://www.scientificamerican.com/article/physicists-criticize-stephen-wolframs-theory-of-everything/)
> Stephen has come up with his own computational view of universe. However, he is getting backfired.

---
