03-life-hodegepodge-of-love-and-tragedy.md, before:

## Life - A Hodgepodge of Love and Tragedy

1. [ From first kiss to unfollowing – culture that sums up love in 2020](https://www.theguardian.com/culture/2020/feb/13/from-first-kiss-to-unfollowing-culture-that-sums-up-love-in-2020)

2. [Lean On](https://longreads.com/2019/02/05/lean-on/)
> I could resonate on this particular topic on whole another level.  
  
> Heartfelt. Contemplating. Leaning on. 
> We seem to lean on certain things, certain conenctions and attachments..in many ways we can only begin to realize about. 
> Self-reliance is a must I agree. But, one cannot truly live in his/her own solitude, right? 
> There's should be some companionship that creates compassion and emotions that blend into the perceived reality of oneself...
> Lean on...

3. [David Foster Wallace Disease](https://hazlitt.net/longreads/david-foster-wallace-disease)
> It's good that David has influenced so much of people around...not in a "classification" manner like "good" or "bad"...but in a more artistic way that seems to resonate with people that are in depressed state...in a more subtle way that's not nonchalant....

4. [The Anxiety Algorithm](https://www.adamjuliangoldstein.com/blog/anxiety-algorithm/)
> "I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it." - Nelson Mandela  

> Reading this write-up made so much sense not only on the startup/tech stack but on life itself. 
> Anxieties are "ways" for imaginations, most of which are pretty on the dark side I guess.
> Fear is a feature of anxiety that kept our ancestors safer, so all of us feel anxious sometimes.

5. [The Pleasures and Pains of Coffee](http://blissbat.net/balzac.html)  
> Damn. I truly know this particular feeling. Drinking coffee feels like a hopeless situation of hope and tragedy...

> "The state coffee puts one in when it is drunk on an empty stomach under these magisterial conditions produces a kind of animation that looks like anger: one's voice rises, one's gestures suggest unhealthy impatience: one wants everything to proceed with the speed of ideas; one becomes brusque, ill-tempered about nothing"

6. [Inside David Foster Wallace's Private Self-Help Library](https://www.theawl.com/2011/04/inside-david-foster-wallaces-private-self-help-library/)

> "Humility — the acceptance that being human is good enough — is the embrace of ordinariness."  

> The love his admirers bear this author has a peculiarly intimate and personal character. This is because Wallace gave voice to the inner workings of ordinary human beings in a manner so winning and so truthful and forgiving as to make him seem a friend.  

> Wallace seemed always to be trying to erase the distance between himself and others in order to understand them better, and trying visibly to make himself understood — always asking questions, demanding to know more details. 

7. [One Big Idea](https://www.perell.com/blog/one-big-idea)

> This is a short and concise write-up by David. Like he has mentioned in the article: `In my pursuit, I’m guided by the famous words of Bruce Lee: "I fear not the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks once, but I fear the man who has practiced one kick 10,000 times.” `

8. [Freeman Dyson - Why I don't like the PhD system](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DzC1IRYN_Ps)
> For me it's personally relatable since I don't quite have long attention span to focus on one thing for a very long time.  

9. [Being basic as a virtue](https://nadiaeghbal.com/basic)
> This hits hard and quite close to me. :)

10. [My Friend Mister Rogers](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/12/what-would-mister-rogers-do/600772/)
> I can't even imagine a person like Fred Rogers. He was a fascinating person I guess. And this article gives a perspective from the writer, 
a life-long friend of Rogers, who interviewed him and turned into a deeply emotional relationship.

11. [Can you say...Hero?](https://www.esquire.com/entertainment/tv/a27134/can-you-say-hero-esq1198/)

12. [The Price of Discipline - David Perell](https://www.perell.com/blog/the-price-of-discipline)
> "It's no accident, I think, that tennis uses the language of life. Advantage, service, fault, break, love, the basic elements of tennis are those of everyday existence, because every match is a life in miniature."

13. [The Top Idea in Your Mind](http://www.paulgraham.com/top.html)
> "You can't directly control where your thoughts drift. If you're controlling them, they're not drifting. But you can control them indirectly, by controlling what situations you let yourself get into."


14. [Letter to myself in late 2008](https://dalton.substack.com/p/letter-to-myself-in-late-2008)

15. [YouTube: The Strangest Secret in the World by Earl Nightingale](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UygnXqoKrC4)  
15. [Text Version](https://livesensical.com/podcast/change-your-life/strangest-secret/)

> "We become what we think about."

> Earl Nightingale was an American radio speaker and author, dealing mostly with the subjects of human character development, motivation, and meaningful existence.

> Earl Nightingale message is incredible here and we highly recommend listening to it and following some of the awesome traits Earl lays out in detail.

> This is an inspiring speech by Nightingale. It's one of the best wisdom that anyone can get.


16. [The Woman Who Lives 200,000 Years in the Past ](https://www.outsideonline.com/2411125/lynx-vilden-stone-age-life)
> Truly amazing woman, Lynx!

17. [A Feminist Critique of Murakami Novels, With Murakami Himself](https://lithub.com/a-feminist-critique-of-murakami-novels-with-murakami-himself/)
> "It's always a pleasure to get a peek into Murakami's mind. What a mindful converstaion between the two people here... "

18. [The Portal Episode 01 - Eric Weinstein](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nM9f0W2KD5s)

> This has been in my to-listen list for a long time now since I know (vaguely) who Eirc was. 
> Finally, I listened it with attention to what Eric and Peter Thiel had to contribute. 
> It was like two intellectuals, although separated by personal philosophy and dogma, were in this dance of thought processes 
that synchronized with each other. 
> Both, having respect for each other, were totally true intellectuals. 
> "Peter and Eric discuss the link between growth and violence and the need to rejoin the quest for a more energizing future for all levels of society."

19. [Why Is Joe Rogan So Popular?](https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2019/08/my-joe-rogan-experience/594802/)
> This had been on my to-read for  so many months because I wanted to experience the podcast. Since I've started listening to conversations, I feel I barely know who Joe is. I had assumed him to be someone groking money and popularity. Boy... I was damn wrong. This man is his own Wikipedia... intellectual...a different kind. I'm glad that I've started to listen to his podcast...

20. [What I learned from 100 days of rejection | Jia Jiang](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vZXgApsPCQ)
> Reject teaches us valuable things, about doubts we have and dares us to ask the "why" question.
 
21. [Remembering Freeman Dyson](https://www.edge.org/conversation/freeman_dyson-remembering-freeman-dyson)
> It was such a good experience reading about Dyson from the people around whom he influenced...

22. [The days are long but the decades are short](https://blog.samaltman.com/the-days-are-long-but-the-decades-are-short)

23. [Conversation with Parijat from 1963](https://www.recordnepal.com/art-letter/i-dont-have-faith-in-this-thing-called-god-conversation-with-parijat-from-1963/)

> I am not sure if I can genuinely talk about this. I haven't had any chance to get into the mind of Parijat, how she viewed the world, and what even life and love meant to her? Is life even meaningful? I have many questions that often bombard my Mind-Cave.

24. [The Day I Found Out My Life Was Hanging by a Thread](https://www.wired.com/story/the-day-i-found-out-my-life-was-hanging-by-a-thread/)
> This is heart-touching. I've no words. I hope someday medical miracle will be seen where cancer is cured.

25. [Why’s This So Good? David Foster Wallace and the brilliant “Consider the Lobster”](https://niemanstoryboard.org/stories/whys-this-so-crazy-good-david-foster-wallace-and-consider-the-lobster/)

26. [Cigarette! Exquisite fiend, ephemeral friend, how I miss you](https://psyche.co/ideas/cigarette-exquisite-fiend-ephemeral-friend-how-i-miss-you)
> Not to philosophize the habit of smoking, but " Smoking is a pause, a space to breathe.".
I wasn't a regular smoker (had started smoking just last year from once a week to few times a week). But I wasn't addicted becaus I could control myself. Plus there was weed.

27. [I sell onions on the Internet](https://www.deepsouthventures.com/i-sell-onions-on-the-internet/)
> Inspiring...

28. [On Old Photos of Oneself](https://www.theschooloflife.com/thebookoflife/on-old-photos-of-oneself/)
> This flow of words moved me like [[The School Of Life]] does always. It's like watching a video from an old camcorder; you're just there imagining what it was like through the passage of time with love, sadness, happiness, fear, miseries; how we flowed. A reflection of one's self, of the world within, of the world that surrounds us.

---

Commit message:

Add blog new reads
- What to write down when you’re reading to learn
- The art of being alone
- expiring vs long-term knowledge
- reflections on color of my skin
- Writing, briefly

03-life-hodegepodge-of-love-and-tragedy.md, after:

## Life - A Hodgepodge of Love and Tragedy

1. [ From first kiss to unfollowing – culture that sums up love in 2020](https://www.theguardian.com/culture/2020/feb/13/from-first-kiss-to-unfollowing-culture-that-sums-up-love-in-2020)

2. [Lean On](https://longreads.com/2019/02/05/lean-on/)
> I could resonate on this particular topic on whole another level.  
  
> Heartfelt. Contemplating. Leaning on. 
> We seem to lean on certain things, certain conenctions and attachments..in many ways we can only begin to realize about. 
> Self-reliance is a must I agree. But, one cannot truly live in his/her own solitude, right? 
> There's should be some companionship that creates compassion and emotions that blend into the perceived reality of oneself...
> Lean on...

3. [David Foster Wallace Disease](https://hazlitt.net/longreads/david-foster-wallace-disease)
> It's good that David has influenced so much of people around...not in a "classification" manner like "good" or "bad"...but in a more artistic way that seems to resonate with people that are in depressed state...in a more subtle way that's not nonchalant....

4. [The Anxiety Algorithm](https://www.adamjuliangoldstein.com/blog/anxiety-algorithm/)
> "I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it." - Nelson Mandela  

> Reading this write-up made so much sense not only on the startup/tech stack but on life itself. 
> Anxieties are "ways" for imaginations, most of which are pretty on the dark side I guess.
> Fear is a feature of anxiety that kept our ancestors safer, so all of us feel anxious sometimes.

5. [The Pleasures and Pains of Coffee](http://blissbat.net/balzac.html)  
> Damn. I truly know this particular feeling. Drinking coffee feels like a hopeless situation of hope and tragedy...

> "The state coffee puts one in when it is drunk on an empty stomach under these magisterial conditions produces a kind of animation that looks like anger: one's voice rises, one's gestures suggest unhealthy impatience: one wants everything to proceed with the speed of ideas; one becomes brusque, ill-tempered about nothing"

6. [Inside David Foster Wallace's Private Self-Help Library](https://www.theawl.com/2011/04/inside-david-foster-wallaces-private-self-help-library/)

> "Humility — the acceptance that being human is good enough — is the embrace of ordinariness."  

> The love his admirers bear this author has a peculiarly intimate and personal character. This is because Wallace gave voice to the inner workings of ordinary human beings in a manner so winning and so truthful and forgiving as to make him seem a friend.  

> Wallace seemed always to be trying to erase the distance between himself and others in order to understand them better, and trying visibly to make himself understood — always asking questions, demanding to know more details. 

7. [One Big Idea](https://www.perell.com/blog/one-big-idea)

> This is a short and concise write-up by David. Like he has mentioned in the article: `In my pursuit, I’m guided by the famous words of Bruce Lee: "I fear not the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks once, but I fear the man who has practiced one kick 10,000 times.” `

8. [Freeman Dyson - Why I don't like the PhD system](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DzC1IRYN_Ps)
> For me it's personally relatable since I don't quite have long attention span to focus on one thing for a very long time.  

9. [Being basic as a virtue](https://nadiaeghbal.com/basic)
> This hits hard and quite close to me. :)

10. [My Friend Mister Rogers](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/12/what-would-mister-rogers-do/600772/)
> I can't even imagine a person like Fred Rogers. He was a fascinating person I guess. And this article gives a perspective from the writer, 
a life-long friend of Rogers, who interviewed him and turned into a deeply emotional relationship.

11. [Can you say...Hero?](https://www.esquire.com/entertainment/tv/a27134/can-you-say-hero-esq1198/)

12. [The Price of Discipline - David Perell](https://www.perell.com/blog/the-price-of-discipline)
> "It's no accident, I think, that tennis uses the language of life. Advantage, service, fault, break, love, the basic elements of tennis are those of everyday existence, because every match is a life in miniature."

13. [The Top Idea in Your Mind](http://www.paulgraham.com/top.html)
> "You can't directly control where your thoughts drift. If you're controlling them, they're not drifting. But you can control them indirectly, by controlling what situations you let yourself get into."


14. [Letter to myself in late 2008](https://dalton.substack.com/p/letter-to-myself-in-late-2008)

15. [YouTube: The Strangest Secret in the World by Earl Nightingale](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=UygnXqoKrC4)  
15. [Text Version](https://livesensical.com/podcast/change-your-life/strangest-secret/)

> "We become what we think about."

> Earl Nightingale was an American radio speaker and author, dealing mostly with the subjects of human character development, motivation, and meaningful existence.

> Earl Nightingale message is incredible here and we highly recommend listening to it and following some of the awesome traits Earl lays out in detail.

> This is an inspiring speech by Nightingale. It's one of the best wisdom that anyone can get.


16. [The Woman Who Lives 200,000 Years in the Past ](https://www.outsideonline.com/2411125/lynx-vilden-stone-age-life)
> Truly amazing woman, Lynx!

17. [A Feminist Critique of Murakami Novels, With Murakami Himself](https://lithub.com/a-feminist-critique-of-murakami-novels-with-murakami-himself/)
> "It's always a pleasure to get a peek into Murakami's mind. What a mindful converstaion between the two people here... "

18. [The Portal Episode 01 - Eric Weinstein](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=nM9f0W2KD5s)

> This has been in my to-listen list for a long time now since I know (vaguely) who Eirc was. 
> Finally, I listened it with attention to what Eric and Peter Thiel had to contribute. 
> It was like two intellectuals, although separated by personal philosophy and dogma, were in this dance of thought processes 
that synchronized with each other. 
> Both, having respect for each other, were totally true intellectuals. 
> "Peter and Eric discuss the link between growth and violence and the need to rejoin the quest for a more energizing future for all levels of society."

19. [Why Is Joe Rogan So Popular?](https://www.theatlantic.com/entertainment/archive/2019/08/my-joe-rogan-experience/594802/)
> This had been on my to-read for  so many months because I wanted to experience the podcast. Since I've started listening to conversations, I feel I barely know who Joe is. I had assumed him to be someone groking money and popularity. Boy... I was damn wrong. This man is his own Wikipedia... intellectual...a different kind. I'm glad that I've started to listen to his podcast...

20. [What I learned from 100 days of rejection | Jia Jiang](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-vZXgApsPCQ)
> Reject teaches us valuable things, about doubts we have and dares us to ask the "why" question.
 
21. [Remembering Freeman Dyson](https://www.edge.org/conversation/freeman_dyson-remembering-freeman-dyson)
> It was such a good experience reading about Dyson from the people around whom he influenced...

22. [The days are long but the decades are short](https://blog.samaltman.com/the-days-are-long-but-the-decades-are-short)

23. [Conversation with Parijat from 1963](https://www.recordnepal.com/art-letter/i-dont-have-faith-in-this-thing-called-god-conversation-with-parijat-from-1963/)

> I am not sure if I can genuinely talk about this. I haven't had any chance to get into the mind of Parijat, how she viewed the world, and what even life and love meant to her? Is life even meaningful? I have many questions that often bombard my Mind-Cave.

24. [The Day I Found Out My Life Was Hanging by a Thread](https://www.wired.com/story/the-day-i-found-out-my-life-was-hanging-by-a-thread/)
> This is heart-touching. I've no words. I hope someday medical miracle will be seen where cancer is cured.

25. [Why’s This So Good? David Foster Wallace and the brilliant “Consider the Lobster”](https://niemanstoryboard.org/stories/whys-this-so-crazy-good-david-foster-wallace-and-consider-the-lobster/)

26. [Cigarette! Exquisite fiend, ephemeral friend, how I miss you](https://psyche.co/ideas/cigarette-exquisite-fiend-ephemeral-friend-how-i-miss-you)
> Not to philosophize the habit of smoking, but " Smoking is a pause, a space to breathe.".
I wasn't a regular smoker (had started smoking just last year from once a week to few times a week). But I wasn't addicted becaus I could control myself. Plus there was weed.

27. [I sell onions on the Internet](https://www.deepsouthventures.com/i-sell-onions-on-the-internet/)
> Inspiring...

28. [On Old Photos of Oneself](https://www.theschooloflife.com/thebookoflife/on-old-photos-of-oneself/)
> This flow of words moved me like [[The School Of Life]] does always. It's like watching a video from an old camcorder; you're just there imagining what it was like through the passage of time with love, sadness, happiness, fear, miseries; how we flowed. A reflection of one's self, of the world within, of the world that surrounds us.

29. [Reflections On the Color of My Skin - Neil deGrasse Tyson](https://www.reddit.com/r/Longreads/comments/gwth4o/reflections_on_the_color_of_my_skin_neil_degrasse/)

> Heart-wrenching

30. [The art of being alone](https://fs.blog/2020/06/being-alone/)

---
