04-health.md, before:

## Health
1. [The Next Outbreak? We're not ready](https://www.ted.com/talks/bill_gates_the_next_outbreak_we_re_not_ready)
> Bill Gates is pretty thoughtful and mindful. He is an intellect who (from my perspective) tries to see things from wider perspective through his knowledge and mental models.  
> This is one of the "better" talks I have watched and it's so true that the world isn't prepared to pandemics.  

> We think are ready for any thing. We were ready to buckle up for war between countries, inside a country, separatists propaganda, 
and so much I can't jolt down here.  

> But here's the thing, we are never ready for new kind of viruses, a new form of epidemic. Partly because viruses are complex, mutable. 
> And partly because we can't truly quarantine such entities. And because they grow exponentially in some forms. It takes time to reach a stale growth, the upper flat side of a sigmoid curve. It just takes time and we don't have enough mentality to avoid new viruses. 

> That's why we have never thought of preparing for such outbreak despite being cautioned by researchers time and again of possible outburst. 
> Perhaps, we all are cognitively bias to refer to new type of viruses as simple flus, with relatively small number of deaths initially. 
> But then when it grows and gets out of hand, that's when we realize it has already begun and we haven't still prepared ourselves. 
> That's the truth I guess.

2. [How we must respond to the COVID-19 pandemic | Bill Gates](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xe8fIjxicoo)
> Like his talk from 2015, Bill keeps on emphasizing how we should proceed for testing kits/tool that are cheaper, help private sectors and be more precationary.

3. [The world’s biggest problems and why they’re not what first comes to mind](https://80000hours.org/career-guide/world-problems/)
> What are the world’s biggest and most urgent problems?  
> The most urgent problems are those where people can have the greatest impact by working on them.  
> The more neglected and solvable, the further extra effort will go.

4. [The Most Important (and Literary?) Meal of the Day](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/06/books/breakfast-in-literature.html)

5. [How Long Will a Vaccine Really Take?](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/30/opinion/coronavirus-covid-vaccine.html)
> I know it will take sometime...

---

Commit message:

Add an article to health titled "Effects on cognition of sleeping 4 hours per night"

04-health.md, after:

## Health
1. [The Next Outbreak? We're not ready](https://www.ted.com/talks/bill_gates_the_next_outbreak_we_re_not_ready)
> Bill Gates is pretty thoughtful and mindful. He is an intellect who (from my perspective) tries to see things from wider perspective through his knowledge and mental models.  
> This is one of the "better" talks I have watched and it's so true that the world isn't prepared to pandemics.  

> We think are ready for any thing. We were ready to buckle up for war between countries, inside a country, separatists propaganda, 
and so much I can't jolt down here.  

> But here's the thing, we are never ready for new kind of viruses, a new form of epidemic. Partly because viruses are complex, mutable. 
> And partly because we can't truly quarantine such entities. And because they grow exponentially in some forms. It takes time to reach a stale growth, the upper flat side of a sigmoid curve. It just takes time and we don't have enough mentality to avoid new viruses. 

> That's why we have never thought of preparing for such outbreak despite being cautioned by researchers time and again of possible outburst. 
> Perhaps, we all are cognitively bias to refer to new type of viruses as simple flus, with relatively small number of deaths initially. 
> But then when it grows and gets out of hand, that's when we realize it has already begun and we haven't still prepared ourselves. 
> That's the truth I guess.

2. [How we must respond to the COVID-19 pandemic | Bill Gates](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xe8fIjxicoo)
> Like his talk from 2015, Bill keeps on emphasizing how we should proceed for testing kits/tool that are cheaper, help private sectors and be more precationary.

3. [The world’s biggest problems and why they’re not what first comes to mind](https://80000hours.org/career-guide/world-problems/)
> What are the world’s biggest and most urgent problems?  
> The most urgent problems are those where people can have the greatest impact by working on them.  
> The more neglected and solvable, the further extra effort will go.

4. [The Most Important (and Literary?) Meal of the Day](https://www.nytimes.com/2020/05/06/books/breakfast-in-literature.html)

5. [How Long Will a Vaccine Really Take?](https://www.nytimes.com/interactive/2020/04/30/opinion/coronavirus-covid-vaccine.html)
> I know it will take sometime...

6. [The Effects on Cognition of Sleeping 4 Hours per Night for 12-14 Days: a Pre-Registered Self-Experiment](https://guzey.com/science/sleep/14-day-sleep-deprivation-self-experiment/)
> This was a unique read for me. I guess it's more like reading a research paper than an article. I could barely understand the statistics (which I had studied in the B.E days). It's interesting to note that the author didn't find any degradation of cognitive skills due to a lack of "normal" sleep hours. The author used some techniques to measure his cognitive skills, mainly playing a video game, solving SAT problems, and [[Psychomotor Vigilance Task]] (a sustained-attention, reaction-timed task that measures the speed with which subjects respond to a visual stimulus). However, it might be the case that subtle negative effects will accumulate slowly, if not checked, to the point that it may degrade physical health too. The data collection technique by the author needs patience and a lot of self-awareness. That's fascinating equally.

---
