05-music.md, before:

## Music
1. [How I recorded an album on my own, in my room](https://medium.com/@rodrigo.m.mesquita/what-i-learned-recording-an-alternative-album-on-my-own-in-my-room-c440b8201c9)
> I wish I could have same level of perseverance as that of the author. This is truly an inspiring write-up.

2. [YouTube: Light in Babylon - Baderech El Hayam](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2hHfAan74ek)
> I recently discovered this band. 
> I have been listening to some exotic music that reflect native culture through their instruments, vocals and spirit.  


>  "A celebration of the cosmopolitan traditions of both Istanbul and the Sephardic Jewish community and another example of the great music that is coming out of the Eastern Mediterranean right now." - fRoots Magazine  


> This specific song is hewbrewish. The title translates to **On The Way To The Sea**. The translation of the song goes something like this:  


> A pair of busty eyes  
> A pair of similar eyes  
> They tell me why they can't  
> And be happy  
> 
> Waiting life  
> Life gift  
> Escape from here for over a year  
> To another country  
> 
> On the way to the sea  
> I didn't prepare for that  
> May call me there   
> In her erotic voice  
>  
> Talked about the Creator  
> And I could see  
> Sometimes it exists  
> In the neurotic world  


> I think it's beautiful and should be felt to (not just listened).


3. [Why Do We Even Listen to New Music?](https://pitchfork.com/features/article/listen-to-music/)

> When it comes to hearing music, a network of nerves in the auditory cortex called the corticofugal network helps catalog the different patterns of music.

> When we hear something that hasn’t already been mapped onto the brain, the corticofugal network goes a bit haywire, and our brain releases too much dopamine as a response. When there is no anchor or no pattern on which to map, music registers as unpleasant. “If the dopamine neurons can’t correlate their firing with outside events, the brain is unable to make cogent associations.” The way the corticofugal system learns new patterns limits our experiences by making everything we already know far more pleasurable than everything we don’t.

> It’s that our brains actually fight against the unfamiliarity of life. We are built to abhor the uncertainty of newness. The choice to listen to new music prioritizes, if for one listen only, the artist over you.

---

Commit message:

Add article "When Music Is Your First Language" by Philip Kennicott

05-music.md, after:

## Music
1. [How I recorded an album on my own, in my room](https://medium.com/@rodrigo.m.mesquita/what-i-learned-recording-an-alternative-album-on-my-own-in-my-room-c440b8201c9)
> I wish I could have same level of perseverance as that of the author. This is truly an inspiring write-up.

2. [YouTube: Light in Babylon - Baderech El Hayam](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=2hHfAan74ek)
> I recently discovered this band. 
> I have been listening to some exotic music that reflect native culture through their instruments, vocals and spirit.  


>  "A celebration of the cosmopolitan traditions of both Istanbul and the Sephardic Jewish community and another example of the great music that is coming out of the Eastern Mediterranean right now." - fRoots Magazine  


> This specific song is hewbrewish. The title translates to **On The Way To The Sea**. The translation of the song goes something like this:  


> A pair of busty eyes  
> A pair of similar eyes  
> They tell me why they can't  
> And be happy  
> 
> Waiting life  
> Life gift  
> Escape from here for over a year  
> To another country  
> 
> On the way to the sea  
> I didn't prepare for that  
> May call me there   
> In her erotic voice  
>  
> Talked about the Creator  
> And I could see  
> Sometimes it exists  
> In the neurotic world  


> I think it's beautiful and should be felt to (not just listened).


3. [Why Do We Even Listen to New Music?](https://pitchfork.com/features/article/listen-to-music/)

> When it comes to hearing music, a network of nerves in the auditory cortex called the corticofugal network helps catalog the different patterns of music.

> When we hear something that hasn’t already been mapped onto the brain, the corticofugal network goes a bit haywire, and our brain releases too much dopamine as a response. When there is no anchor or no pattern on which to map, music registers as unpleasant. “If the dopamine neurons can’t correlate their firing with outside events, the brain is unable to make cogent associations.” The way the corticofugal system learns new patterns limits our experiences by making everything we already know far more pleasurable than everything we don’t.

> It’s that our brains actually fight against the unfamiliarity of life. We are built to abhor the uncertainty of newness. The choice to listen to new music prioritizes, if for one listen only, the artist over you.

4. [When Music is Your First Language](https://lithub.com/when-music-is-your-first-language/)
> Philip Kennicott is the chief Art and Architecture Critic of The Washington Post. Philip reflects some of his early experiences with an introduction to music and how his teachers have influenced his perspective on music.

---
