08-learning--thought-processes-habit-knowledge.md, before:

## Learning, Thought Processes, Habits, Knowledge

1. [Using Models to Stay Calm in Charged Situations](https://fs.blog/2020/03/models-charged-situations/)

2. [Build Stuff](https://why.degree/motivation/)
> Build stuff. Don’t just study stuff, build stuff!

3. [Ask HN: What do you use to keep track of bookmarks/notes/snippets?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=22778123)
> Few things I have been experimenting (using) on:  

> (a) [pocket](getpocket.com/): My go-to platform for saving articles to be read later.  

> (b) [evernote](evernote.com/): I mostly dump my broken thoughts here.  

> (c) [zotero](https://github.com/zotero/zotero): Currenly experimenting on this. Seems promising.  

> (d) [Meta: bits-and-paradoxes](https://github.com/NISH1001/bits-and-paradoxes): Compiling some contents I have liked here.  

> (e) [Notion](https://www.notion.so/): People say it's very good. I haven't got my hands dirty with this.  

> (f) [Memex](https://github.com/WorldBrain/Memex): I had been using this on-off. But I ditched it since it was having a toll on the CPU in my firefox browser.  

4. [Roam: Why I Love It and How I Use It](https://www.nateliason.com/blog/roam)

5. [The first two years of my PhD](https://rachitnigam.com/post/first-two-years/)

6. [How to use Roam Research: a tool for metacognition](https://nesslabs.com/roam-research)

7. [How do you remember all of your tags? How do you make sure each note is tagged properly?](https://www.reddit.com/r/RoamResearch/comments/eqpio9/how_do_you_remember_all_of_your_tags_how_do_you/)

8. [How I Build Learning Projects — Part I](https://medium.com/@rchang/how-i-build-learning-projects-part-i-54dbaad68961)

9. [How Notion Uses Notion ](https://www.notion.so/How-Notion-Uses-Notion-616f41d2f5124f3185cf1c36d267c07e)

10. [How to Stick With Good Habits Even When Your Willpower is Gone](https://jamesclear.com/choice-architecture)
> "Your habits change depending on the room you are in and the cues in front of you."

11. [Write Like You Talk](http://www.paulgraham.com/talk.html)
> "Here's a simple trick for getting more people to read what you write: write in spoken language."

12. [Nat Eliason is Living in The Matrix](https://superorganizers.substack.com/p/nat-eliason-is-living-in-the-matrix)
> Everyday, I am improving my usage on roam...and it's getting more and more like "organized chaos". I guess that's okay. :)

13. [Our Bookless Future](https://claremontreviewofbooks.com/our-bookless-future/)
> "Literacy develops through practice—through labor that compels the development of revised brain functions. The more you read, the more your brain adapts. It is a “plastic” organ"

14. [Building a Second Brain: An Overview](https://fortelabs.co/blog/basboverview/)

---

Commit message:

Add references to articles related to cigarettes, and engine-vs-powerups

08-learning--thought-processes-habit-knowledge.md, after:

## Learning, Thought Processes, Habits, Knowledge

1. [Using Models to Stay Calm in Charged Situations](https://fs.blog/2020/03/models-charged-situations/)

2. [Build Stuff](https://why.degree/motivation/)
> Build stuff. Don’t just study stuff, build stuff!

3. [Ask HN: What do you use to keep track of bookmarks/notes/snippets?](https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=22778123)
> Few things I have been experimenting (using) on:  

> (a) [pocket](getpocket.com/): My go-to platform for saving articles to be read later.  

> (b) [evernote](evernote.com/): I mostly dump my broken thoughts here.  

> (c) [zotero](https://github.com/zotero/zotero): Currenly experimenting on this. Seems promising.  

> (d) [Meta: bits-and-paradoxes](https://github.com/NISH1001/bits-and-paradoxes): Compiling some contents I have liked here.  

> (e) [Notion](https://www.notion.so/): People say it's very good. I haven't got my hands dirty with this.  

> (f) [Memex](https://github.com/WorldBrain/Memex): I had been using this on-off. But I ditched it since it was having a toll on the CPU in my firefox browser.  

4. [Roam: Why I Love It and How I Use It](https://www.nateliason.com/blog/roam)

5. [The first two years of my PhD](https://rachitnigam.com/post/first-two-years/)

6. [How to use Roam Research: a tool for metacognition](https://nesslabs.com/roam-research)

7. [How do you remember all of your tags? How do you make sure each note is tagged properly?](https://www.reddit.com/r/RoamResearch/comments/eqpio9/how_do_you_remember_all_of_your_tags_how_do_you/)

8. [How I Build Learning Projects — Part I](https://medium.com/@rchang/how-i-build-learning-projects-part-i-54dbaad68961)

9. [How Notion Uses Notion ](https://www.notion.so/How-Notion-Uses-Notion-616f41d2f5124f3185cf1c36d267c07e)

10. [How to Stick With Good Habits Even When Your Willpower is Gone](https://jamesclear.com/choice-architecture)
> "Your habits change depending on the room you are in and the cues in front of you."

11. [Write Like You Talk](http://www.paulgraham.com/talk.html)
> "Here's a simple trick for getting more people to read what you write: write in spoken language."

12. [Nat Eliason is Living in The Matrix](https://superorganizers.substack.com/p/nat-eliason-is-living-in-the-matrix)
> Everyday, I am improving my usage on roam...and it's getting more and more like "organized chaos". I guess that's okay. :)

13. [Our Bookless Future](https://claremontreviewofbooks.com/our-bookless-future/)
> "Literacy develops through practice—through labor that compels the development of revised brain functions. The more you read, the more your brain adapts. It is a “plastic” organ"

14. [Building a Second Brain: An Overview](https://fortelabs.co/blog/basboverview/)

15. [Engines vs Power-Ups : Learning Skill with a Shelf life](https://alchemist.camp/learning-machine/engines-powerups)
> try to focus on long-term skills (engine)  
  
> never hesitate to go for short-term ones whenever an opportunity arrives

---
