README.md, before:

# Bits and Paradoxes

All things I loved consuming to reinforce my prior beliefs of the world around.

---

## All Things Coding and Software Engineering

#### Coding
1. [Change complex code](https://understandlegacycode.com/blog/a-process-to-do-safe-changes-in-a-complex-codebase/)

> Proxies and brokers.
> Don't replace everything at once.
> Add new code with same old functionality. Replace old code piece by piece like Ship of Theseus. It will have less domino effect of bugs.

2. [New developer old code](https://understandlegacycode.com/blog/is-it-to-the-newer-developer-to-pay-back-others-technical-debt/)

3. [Avoid rewriting a legacy system from scratch, by strangling it](https://understandlegacycode.com/blog/avoid-rewriting-a-legacy-system-from-scratch-by-strangling-it/)

4. [How To Write The Perfect Pull Request](https://github.blog/2015-01-21-how-to-write-the-perfect-pull-request/)

5. [A journey to searching Have I Been Pwned database in 49μs (C++)](http://stryku.pl/poetry/okon.php#a-journey-to-searching-have-i-been-pwned-database-in-49-microseconds)

> Searching using optimal algorithm and data structure. 
> It's weird how in normal cases we don't even consider worst case scenario and just let the algorithm be. 
> But data structures and search algorithms do matter in performance critical domains.

6. [What's so hard about PDF text extraction?](https://www.filingdb.com/pdf-text-extraction)

> This makes sense for me at the moment. 
> Having been working as a computer vision engineer ~coughs~ (over-estimation of the post), PDFs are pain in the ass....

7. [Text Processing In Shell](https://blog.balthazar-rouberol.com/text-processing-in-the-shell)
> The shell can be one of the powerful tools you can use if you are to be comfortable with CLI.

#### Software Engineering Gores

1. [Requirements volatility is the core problem of software engineering](https://stackoverflow.blog/2020/02/20/requirements-volatility-is-the-core-problem-of-software-engineering/)

2. [Why are we so bad at software engineering?](https://www.bitlog.com/2020/02/12/why-are-we-so-bad-at-software-engineering/)
> Partly because it's obscured and non-deterministic.
> "Non-deterministic" in a sense, a simple change can have unforeseen consequences and inherent bugs.
> Also the goals keep on changing constantly.
> Problems with scaling, keeping with temporal values and such.

3. [Please re-add original author to docs and license #1703](https://github.com/Guake/guake/issues/1703)
> Hacker News Thread: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=22523814

> This is an interesting issue in open-source. The original creator of **Guake** was not listed on the later-contributed-by-community continuation of the project. 

> It also showcases the healthy discussion between the intellectuals.

4. [Data Engineering How To](https://github.com/adilkhash/Data-Engineering-HowTo)
> List of relevant resources for data engineering.

5. [When to assume neural networks can solve a problem](https://blog.cerebralab.com/When_to_assume_neural_networks_can_solve_a_problem)

> [Almost certainty] If other ML models already solved the problem.


> [Very high probability] If a similar problem has already been solved by an ML algorithm, and the differences between that and your problem don’t seem significant.


> [High probability] If the inputs & outputs are small enough to be comparable in size to those of other working ML models AND if we know a human can solve the problem with little context besides the inputs and outputs.


> [Reasonable probability] If the inputs & outputs are small enough to be comparable in size to those of other working ML models AND we have a high certainty about the deterministic nature of the problem (that is to say, about the inputs being sufficient to infer the outputs).

#### Unix Ultimate
1. [Unix Toolbox](http://cb.vu/unixtoolbox.xhtml)

2. [How is the Linux kernel tested?](https://embeddedbits.org/how-is-the-linux-kernel-tested/)
> Interesting. Tests have their own set of planes in themselves.

#### Docker
1. [Reducing Image Size](https://www.ardanlabs.com/blog/2020/02/docker-images-part1-reducing-image-size.html)

---

## A Dot In A Dot?
1. [Naming The Universe](https://aeon.co/essays/how-gods-beat-astronomers-in-the-solar-system-name-game)

> History of conflicts of naming "heavenly"(as they say) bodies.
> It's amazing how same results are obtained independently by independent observers without having any interaction with each other's existence.

2. [YouTube: Leonard Susskind: Quantum Mechanics, String Theory and Black Holes | Artificial Intelligence Podcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s78hvV3QLUE)
> It's always fascinating to hear Susskind. Loved listening to this one.

3. [WBH: The Great Battle of Fire and Light - The Power Games](https://waitbutwhy.com/2019/08/fire-light.html)
> This is the part 1 of the series by WBH.  

4. [YouTube: How to Tell Matter From Antimatter | CP Violation & The Ozma Problem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Elt0Gt9Cb6Q)

> This video is about the Ozma problem of distinguishing the chirality (ie left-handedness or right-handedness) of matter using weak interaction processes like beta decay (for example in uranium), or neutral kaon/k-meson decay. This is wrapped up in the phenomenon of CP violation, by which charge and parity are both violated by certain weak interaction processes - this enables antimatter to be unambiguously distinguished from matter, and left handed chirality from right handed.


> In this particular part, it dives (in a very layman way like WBH does every time) into the **genes** as a nature's software, 
and animals as a container/host for those genes.  
> This makes so much sense once you've read [The Selfish Gene by Richard Dawkins](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/2920622699). 

---

## Life - A Hodgepodge of Love and Tragedy

1. [ From first kiss to unfollowing – culture that sums up love in 2020](https://www.theguardian.com/culture/2020/feb/13/from-first-kiss-to-unfollowing-culture-that-sums-up-love-in-2020)

2. [Lean On](https://longreads.com/2019/02/05/lean-on/)
> I could resonate on this particular topic on whole another level.  
  
> Heartfelt. Contemplating. Leaning on. 
> We seem to lean on certain things, certain conenctions and attachments..in many ways we can only begin to realize about. 
> Self-reliance is a must I agree. But, one cannot truly live in his/her own solitude, right? 
> There's should be some companionship that creates compassion and emotions that blend into the perceived reality of oneself...
> Lean on...

3. [David Foster Wallace Disease](https://hazlitt.net/longreads/david-foster-wallace-disease)
> It's good that David has influenced so much of people around...not in a "classification" manner like "good" or "bad"...but in a more artistic way that seems to resonate with people that are in depressed state...in a more subtle way that's not nonchalant....

4. [The Anxiety Algorithm](https://www.adamjuliangoldstein.com/blog/anxiety-algorithm/)
> "I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it." - Nelson Mandela  

> Reading this write-up made so much sense not only on the startup/tech stack but on life itself. 
> Anxieties are "ways" for imaginations, most of which are pretty on the dark side I guess.
> Fear is a feature of anxiety that kept our ancestors safer, so all of us feel anxious sometimes.

5. [The Pleasures and Pains of Coffee](http://blissbat.net/balzac.html)  
> Damn. I truly know this particular feeling. Drinking coffee feels like a hopeless situation of hope and tragedy...

> "The state coffee puts one in when it is drunk on an empty stomach under these magisterial conditions produces a kind of animation that looks like anger: one's voice rises, one's gestures suggest unhealthy impatience: one wants everything to proceed with the speed of ideas; one becomes brusque, ill-tempered about nothing"

6. [Inside David Foster Wallace's Private Self-Help Library](https://www.theawl.com/2011/04/inside-david-foster-wallaces-private-self-help-library/)

> "Humility — the acceptance that being human is good enough — is the embrace of ordinariness."  

> The love his admirers bear this author has a peculiarly intimate and personal character. This is because Wallace gave voice to the inner workings of ordinary human beings in a manner so winning and so truthful and forgiving as to make him seem a friend.  

> Wallace seemed always to be trying to erase the distance between himself and others in order to understand them better, and trying visibly to make himself understood — always asking questions, demanding to know more details. 

7. [One Big Idea](https://www.perell.com/blog/one-big-idea)

> This is a short and concise write-up by David. Like he has mentioned in the article: `In my pursuit, I’m guided by the famous words of Bruce Lee: "I fear not the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks once, but I fear the man who has practiced one kick 10,000 times.” `

8. [Freeman Dyson - Why I don't like the PhD system](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DzC1IRYN_Ps)
> For me it's personally relatable since I don't quite have long attention span to focus on one thing for a very long time.  

9. [Being basic as a virtue](https://nadiaeghbal.com/basic)
> This hits hard and quite close to me. :)

10. [My Friend Mister Rogers](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/12/what-would-mister-rogers-do/600772/)
> I can't even imagine a person like Fred Rogers. He was a fascinating person I guess. And this article gives a perspective from the writer, 
a life-long friend of Rogers, who interviewed him and turned into a deeply emotional relationship.

11. [Can you say...Hero?](https://www.esquire.com/entertainment/tv/a27134/can-you-say-hero-esq1198/)

12. [The Price of Discipline - David Perell](https://www.perell.com/blog/the-price-of-discipline)
> "It's no accident, I think, that tennis uses the language of life. Advantage, service, fault, break, love, the basic elements of tennis are those of everyday existence, because every match is a life in miniature."

13. [The Top Idea in Your Mind](http://www.paulgraham.com/top.html)
> "You can't directly control where your thoughts drift. If you're controlling them, they're not drifting. But you can control them indirectly, by controlling what situations you let yourself get into."


14. [Letter to myself in late 2008](https://dalton.substack.com/p/letter-to-myself-in-late-2008)


---

## Health
1. [The Next Outbreak? We're not ready](https://www.ted.com/talks/bill_gates_the_next_outbreak_we_re_not_ready)
> Bill Gates is pretty thoughtful and mindful. He is an intellect who (from my perspective) tries to see things from wider perspective through his knowledge and mental models.  
> This is one of the "better" talks I have watched and it's so true that the world isn't prepared to pandemics.  

> We think are ready for any thing. We were ready to buckle up for war between countries, inside a country, separatists propaganda, 
and so much I can't jolt down here.  

> But here's the thing, we are never ready for new kind of viruses, a new form of epidemic. Partly because viruses are complex, mutable. 
> And partly because we can't truly quarantine such entities. And because they grow exponentially in some forms. It takes time to reach a stale growth, the upper flat side of a sigmoid curve. It just takes time and we don't have enough mentality to avoid new viruses. 

> That's why we have never thought of preparing for such outbreak despite being cautioned by researchers time and again of possible outburst. 
> Perhaps, we all are cognitively bias to refer to new type of viruses as simple flus, with relatively small number of deaths initially. 
> But then when it grows and gets out of hand, that's when we realize it has already begun and we haven't still prepared ourselves. 
> That's the truth I guess.

2. [How we must respond to the COVID-19 pandemic | Bill Gates](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xe8fIjxicoo)
> Like his talk from 2015, Bill keeps on emphasizing how we should proceed for testing kits/tool that are cheaper, help private sectors and be more precationary.

## Music
1. [How I recorded an album on my own, in my room](https://medium.com/@rodrigo.m.mesquita/what-i-learned-recording-an-alternative-album-on-my-own-in-my-room-c440b8201c9)
> I wish I could have same level of perseverance as that of the author. This is truly an inspiring write-up.

## History
1. [History of Empty Places](https://www.recordnepal.com/perspective/the-history-of-empty-places/)

> Places tolerate us.
> For natives and local residence, same places mean different values.
> For outside observers, it's a matter of great "research" topic about culture and evolution of the place.
> For writer, it's more affine towards emotional aspect -- more articulated feelings.

---


## Poetry
1. [YouTube: "Hir" Poem about trangsgendered youth](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IRLSgPQG0c4)
> This gave me goosebumps.

---

## Learning and Thought Processes
1. [Using Models to Stay Calm in Charged Situations](https://fs.blog/2020/03/models-charged-situations/)

2. [Build Stuff](https://why.degree/motivation/)
> Build stuff. Don’t just study stuff, build stuff!

---

Commit message:

Add post titled "Cognitive Biases In Software Development"

README.md, after:

# Bits and Paradoxes

All things I loved consuming to reinforce my prior beliefs of the world around.

---

## All Things Coding and Software Engineering

#### Coding
1. [Change complex code](https://understandlegacycode.com/blog/a-process-to-do-safe-changes-in-a-complex-codebase/)

> Proxies and brokers.
> Don't replace everything at once.
> Add new code with same old functionality. Replace old code piece by piece like Ship of Theseus. It will have less domino effect of bugs.

2. [New developer old code](https://understandlegacycode.com/blog/is-it-to-the-newer-developer-to-pay-back-others-technical-debt/)

3. [Avoid rewriting a legacy system from scratch, by strangling it](https://understandlegacycode.com/blog/avoid-rewriting-a-legacy-system-from-scratch-by-strangling-it/)

4. [How To Write The Perfect Pull Request](https://github.blog/2015-01-21-how-to-write-the-perfect-pull-request/)

5. [A journey to searching Have I Been Pwned database in 49μs (C++)](http://stryku.pl/poetry/okon.php#a-journey-to-searching-have-i-been-pwned-database-in-49-microseconds)

> Searching using optimal algorithm and data structure. 
> It's weird how in normal cases we don't even consider worst case scenario and just let the algorithm be. 
> But data structures and search algorithms do matter in performance critical domains.

6. [What's so hard about PDF text extraction?](https://www.filingdb.com/pdf-text-extraction)

> This makes sense for me at the moment. 
> Having been working as a computer vision engineer ~coughs~ (over-estimation of the post), PDFs are pain in the ass....

7. [Text Processing In Shell](https://blog.balthazar-rouberol.com/text-processing-in-the-shell)
> The shell can be one of the powerful tools you can use if you are to be comfortable with CLI.

#### Software Engineering Gores

1. [Requirements volatility is the core problem of software engineering](https://stackoverflow.blog/2020/02/20/requirements-volatility-is-the-core-problem-of-software-engineering/)

2. [Why are we so bad at software engineering?](https://www.bitlog.com/2020/02/12/why-are-we-so-bad-at-software-engineering/)
> Partly because it's obscured and non-deterministic.
> "Non-deterministic" in a sense, a simple change can have unforeseen consequences and inherent bugs.
> Also the goals keep on changing constantly.
> Problems with scaling, keeping with temporal values and such.

3. [Please re-add original author to docs and license #1703](https://github.com/Guake/guake/issues/1703)
> Hacker News Thread: https://news.ycombinator.com/item?id=22523814

> This is an interesting issue in open-source. The original creator of **Guake** was not listed on the later-contributed-by-community continuation of the project. 

> It also showcases the healthy discussion between the intellectuals.

4. [Data Engineering How To](https://github.com/adilkhash/Data-Engineering-HowTo)
> List of relevant resources for data engineering.

5. [When to assume neural networks can solve a problem](https://blog.cerebralab.com/When_to_assume_neural_networks_can_solve_a_problem)

> [Almost certainty] If other ML models already solved the problem.


> [Very high probability] If a similar problem has already been solved by an ML algorithm, and the differences between that and your problem don’t seem significant.


> [High probability] If the inputs & outputs are small enough to be comparable in size to those of other working ML models AND if we know a human can solve the problem with little context besides the inputs and outputs.


> [Reasonable probability] If the inputs & outputs are small enough to be comparable in size to those of other working ML models AND we have a high certainty about the deterministic nature of the problem (that is to say, about the inputs being sufficient to infer the outputs).

6. [Cognitive Biases In Software Development](http://smyachenkov.com/posts/cognitive-biases-software-development/)
> We seem to cling to patterns we are familiar with. That applies to software development too. Patterns in programming...



#### Unix Ultimate
1. [Unix Toolbox](http://cb.vu/unixtoolbox.xhtml)

2. [How is the Linux kernel tested?](https://embeddedbits.org/how-is-the-linux-kernel-tested/)
> Interesting. Tests have their own set of planes in themselves.

#### Docker
1. [Reducing Image Size](https://www.ardanlabs.com/blog/2020/02/docker-images-part1-reducing-image-size.html)

---

## A Dot In A Dot?
1. [Naming The Universe](https://aeon.co/essays/how-gods-beat-astronomers-in-the-solar-system-name-game)

> History of conflicts of naming "heavenly"(as they say) bodies.
> It's amazing how same results are obtained independently by independent observers without having any interaction with each other's existence.

2. [YouTube: Leonard Susskind: Quantum Mechanics, String Theory and Black Holes | Artificial Intelligence Podcast](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=s78hvV3QLUE)
> It's always fascinating to hear Susskind. Loved listening to this one.

3. [WBH: The Great Battle of Fire and Light - The Power Games](https://waitbutwhy.com/2019/08/fire-light.html)
> This is the part 1 of the series by WBH.  

4. [YouTube: How to Tell Matter From Antimatter | CP Violation & The Ozma Problem](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Elt0Gt9Cb6Q)

> This video is about the Ozma problem of distinguishing the chirality (ie left-handedness or right-handedness) of matter using weak interaction processes like beta decay (for example in uranium), or neutral kaon/k-meson decay. This is wrapped up in the phenomenon of CP violation, by which charge and parity are both violated by certain weak interaction processes - this enables antimatter to be unambiguously distinguished from matter, and left handed chirality from right handed.


> In this particular part, it dives (in a very layman way like WBH does every time) into the **genes** as a nature's software, 
and animals as a container/host for those genes.  
> This makes so much sense once you've read [The Selfish Gene by Richard Dawkins](https://www.goodreads.com/review/show/2920622699). 

---

## Life - A Hodgepodge of Love and Tragedy

1. [ From first kiss to unfollowing – culture that sums up love in 2020](https://www.theguardian.com/culture/2020/feb/13/from-first-kiss-to-unfollowing-culture-that-sums-up-love-in-2020)

2. [Lean On](https://longreads.com/2019/02/05/lean-on/)
> I could resonate on this particular topic on whole another level.  
  
> Heartfelt. Contemplating. Leaning on. 
> We seem to lean on certain things, certain conenctions and attachments..in many ways we can only begin to realize about. 
> Self-reliance is a must I agree. But, one cannot truly live in his/her own solitude, right? 
> There's should be some companionship that creates compassion and emotions that blend into the perceived reality of oneself...
> Lean on...

3. [David Foster Wallace Disease](https://hazlitt.net/longreads/david-foster-wallace-disease)
> It's good that David has influenced so much of people around...not in a "classification" manner like "good" or "bad"...but in a more artistic way that seems to resonate with people that are in depressed state...in a more subtle way that's not nonchalant....

4. [The Anxiety Algorithm](https://www.adamjuliangoldstein.com/blog/anxiety-algorithm/)
> "I learned that courage was not the absence of fear, but the triumph over it." - Nelson Mandela  

> Reading this write-up made so much sense not only on the startup/tech stack but on life itself. 
> Anxieties are "ways" for imaginations, most of which are pretty on the dark side I guess.
> Fear is a feature of anxiety that kept our ancestors safer, so all of us feel anxious sometimes.

5. [The Pleasures and Pains of Coffee](http://blissbat.net/balzac.html)  
> Damn. I truly know this particular feeling. Drinking coffee feels like a hopeless situation of hope and tragedy...

> "The state coffee puts one in when it is drunk on an empty stomach under these magisterial conditions produces a kind of animation that looks like anger: one's voice rises, one's gestures suggest unhealthy impatience: one wants everything to proceed with the speed of ideas; one becomes brusque, ill-tempered about nothing"

6. [Inside David Foster Wallace's Private Self-Help Library](https://www.theawl.com/2011/04/inside-david-foster-wallaces-private-self-help-library/)

> "Humility — the acceptance that being human is good enough — is the embrace of ordinariness."  

> The love his admirers bear this author has a peculiarly intimate and personal character. This is because Wallace gave voice to the inner workings of ordinary human beings in a manner so winning and so truthful and forgiving as to make him seem a friend.  

> Wallace seemed always to be trying to erase the distance between himself and others in order to understand them better, and trying visibly to make himself understood — always asking questions, demanding to know more details. 

7. [One Big Idea](https://www.perell.com/blog/one-big-idea)

> This is a short and concise write-up by David. Like he has mentioned in the article: `In my pursuit, I’m guided by the famous words of Bruce Lee: "I fear not the man who has practiced 10,000 kicks once, but I fear the man who has practiced one kick 10,000 times.” `

8. [Freeman Dyson - Why I don't like the PhD system](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=DzC1IRYN_Ps)
> For me it's personally relatable since I don't quite have long attention span to focus on one thing for a very long time.  

9. [Being basic as a virtue](https://nadiaeghbal.com/basic)
> This hits hard and quite close to me. :)

10. [My Friend Mister Rogers](https://www.theatlantic.com/magazine/archive/2019/12/what-would-mister-rogers-do/600772/)
> I can't even imagine a person like Fred Rogers. He was a fascinating person I guess. And this article gives a perspective from the writer, 
a life-long friend of Rogers, who interviewed him and turned into a deeply emotional relationship.

11. [Can you say...Hero?](https://www.esquire.com/entertainment/tv/a27134/can-you-say-hero-esq1198/)

12. [The Price of Discipline - David Perell](https://www.perell.com/blog/the-price-of-discipline)
> "It's no accident, I think, that tennis uses the language of life. Advantage, service, fault, break, love, the basic elements of tennis are those of everyday existence, because every match is a life in miniature."

13. [The Top Idea in Your Mind](http://www.paulgraham.com/top.html)
> "You can't directly control where your thoughts drift. If you're controlling them, they're not drifting. But you can control them indirectly, by controlling what situations you let yourself get into."


14. [Letter to myself in late 2008](https://dalton.substack.com/p/letter-to-myself-in-late-2008)


---

## Health
1. [The Next Outbreak? We're not ready](https://www.ted.com/talks/bill_gates_the_next_outbreak_we_re_not_ready)
> Bill Gates is pretty thoughtful and mindful. He is an intellect who (from my perspective) tries to see things from wider perspective through his knowledge and mental models.  
> This is one of the "better" talks I have watched and it's so true that the world isn't prepared to pandemics.  

> We think are ready for any thing. We were ready to buckle up for war between countries, inside a country, separatists propaganda, 
and so much I can't jolt down here.  

> But here's the thing, we are never ready for new kind of viruses, a new form of epidemic. Partly because viruses are complex, mutable. 
> And partly because we can't truly quarantine such entities. And because they grow exponentially in some forms. It takes time to reach a stale growth, the upper flat side of a sigmoid curve. It just takes time and we don't have enough mentality to avoid new viruses. 

> That's why we have never thought of preparing for such outbreak despite being cautioned by researchers time and again of possible outburst. 
> Perhaps, we all are cognitively bias to refer to new type of viruses as simple flus, with relatively small number of deaths initially. 
> But then when it grows and gets out of hand, that's when we realize it has already begun and we haven't still prepared ourselves. 
> That's the truth I guess.

2. [How we must respond to the COVID-19 pandemic | Bill Gates](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=Xe8fIjxicoo)
> Like his talk from 2015, Bill keeps on emphasizing how we should proceed for testing kits/tool that are cheaper, help private sectors and be more precationary.

## Music
1. [How I recorded an album on my own, in my room](https://medium.com/@rodrigo.m.mesquita/what-i-learned-recording-an-alternative-album-on-my-own-in-my-room-c440b8201c9)
> I wish I could have same level of perseverance as that of the author. This is truly an inspiring write-up.

## History
1. [History of Empty Places](https://www.recordnepal.com/perspective/the-history-of-empty-places/)

> Places tolerate us.
> For natives and local residence, same places mean different values.
> For outside observers, it's a matter of great "research" topic about culture and evolution of the place.
> For writer, it's more affine towards emotional aspect -- more articulated feelings.

---


## Poetry
1. [YouTube: "Hir" Poem about trangsgendered youth](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=IRLSgPQG0c4)
> This gave me goosebumps.

---

## Learning and Thought Processes
1. [Using Models to Stay Calm in Charged Situations](https://fs.blog/2020/03/models-charged-situations/)

2. [Build Stuff](https://why.degree/motivation/)
> Build stuff. Don’t just study stuff, build stuff!

---
